---
title: Crack The Code 2019 
excerpt: "IIT Mandi CTF v2.0-beta"
author_profile: true
author: Abhigyan Khaund
toc: true
toc_label: "On this page"
header:
  overlay_image: "https://i2.wp.com/24.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mdn5s0Q7Ht1r66g9jo1_500.gif"
---

## Introduction

After the [first CTF](https://capturethestone.herokuapp.com) last year of IIT Mandi, we now present to you the second CTF. We call it a v2.0-beta because it is just a glimpse into the actual CTF to be held in Utkarsh. This time, I have passed on the problem setting baton to Akshat Malviya (2nd Year) and Anant Mishra (3rd Year). I am happy that we'd be continuing to hold the event on my web terminal project.<br>
P.S. There is a lot of going on the terminal, so I hope in the next release we'd be able to use a much more enhanced terminal with ubuntu like features on the terminal.

## The Event

The event will be held on 27th January,2019 from a To-Be-Decided time for a To-Be-Decided duration. The event will be hosted on `https://ctciitmandi.herokuapp.com`. The prize money for this event is Rs 1200/- for the top two participants. 

## Guidelines

### Steps to participate - 

* Signup on the [platform](https://ctciitmandi.herokuapp.com) using your institute email address on or before 25th January.
* On 26th January, verification email for your registered email-ids would be sent. Email-IDs which would not be verified wouldn't be able to participate.
* On 27th January, you would be able to see the problems after the event starts and you verify your email.

### Rules

* It is a standard CTF with a flag to every level.
* For each level you can access a hint, a maximum of 1 hint would be allowed in the entire contest.
* Participants should not carry out any attacks on the CTF infrastructure.
* There should be no collaboration between different participants and flag sharing is not allowed.
* In case of any kind of suspicion on any participant for violating any of the rules or cheating of any kind, the participant would be banned from the event without any warning and account would be deleted.

### Mock Contest

For testing the platform and to practice questions, you can mock try the previous year's contest. For details on it, [click here](https://kamandprompt.github.io/blog/CTF-2017-editorials/).